Rajat Goel

+91-89883-50157


  Software Engineer with 5+ years of experience.
  Builds highly available and scalable applications across the Java stack.
  Well-versed with RESTful microservices and event-driven architecture.
  Solid understanding of databases and query optimization - MongoDB and MySQL


PERSONAL INFORMATION
  Address: , , 
  Nationality: 
  Driving License: 
  Hobbies: 

SOCIAL PROFILES
  * linkedin.com/in/rajatgl17: linkedin.com/in/rajatgl17/
  * github.com/rajatgl17: github.com/rajatgl17
  * rajatgl17.github.io/blog: rajatgl17.github.io/blog/

SKILLS
  Java
  Spring / Spring Boot
  SQL
  MongoDB
  Apache Kafka
  RabbitMQ
  DynamoDB
  Redis
  Hibernate
  Elasticsearch
  AWS
  Maven
  Git
  Docker
  JUnit / Mockito
  PlantUML

WORK EXPERIENCE
  * October 2020 – Present
    Senior Software Engineer at Deutsche Telekom Digital Labs, Gurugram
      
  Producing coherent technical designs that meets product requirements.
  Leading development of new features and enhancements related to home gateway management system.
  Mentoring developers, and introducing best practices and processes to increase team efficiency.
  Integrated Cujo services with next generation RDK based home gateways for enhanced capabilities.


  * April 2019 – October 2020
    Senior Software Engineer at OnGrid, Gurugram
      
  Redesigned and led the implementation of report generation module, making it scalable and faster.
  Built a data pipeline using Debezium and Kafka, streaming data out of the monolith database.
  Implemented Solr based criminal record check.
  Piloted BPMN 2.0 (Activiti framework) based D-KYC solution.


  * March 2017 – March 2019
    Software Engineer at Azuga, Bengaluru
      
  Worked on data pipeline to enrich and distribute incoming live data to multiple sources and migrating existing old data (size in TBs) from MySQL to NoSQL-MongoDB.
  Managed deployment, security, and monitoring of micro-services using API gateway - Kong.
  Implemented authentication and authorization platform (based on Single-Sign-On and OAuth2).
  Worked on multiple micro-services involved in IoT-based telematics solution - Fleet.



EDUCATION
  * August 2012 – May 2016
    Rajasthan Technical University, Jaipur Bachelor of Technology
  * April 2011 – March 2012
    DAV Public School, Sirmaur, HP Higher Secondary

